.TH envpack 1
.ds )H METEO-FRANCE - CNRM/GMAP
.SH NAME
envpack \- display the environment variables related to
.B gmkpack
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B envpack
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B envpack
displays the environment variables related to the use of 
.B gmkpack
in the current session, as well as the version of gmkpack used and its path.
.br
.B envpack
reminds you if you are your own pack administrator. This happens when the
environment variables HOMEPACK and ROOTPACK are the same.
.PP
.SH ENVIRONNEMENT
.IP ROOTPACK
The default directory of reference packs as an alternative to
.I $HOME/rootpack
.IP HOMEPACK
The default directory of user packs as an alternative to
.I $HOME/pack
.IP ROOTBIN
The root directory for executables of all reference packs. It enables to store
executables in another file system (larger and possibly semi-permanent).
.IP HOMEBIN
The root directory for executables of all user packs. It enables to store
executables in another file system (larger and possibly semi-permanent).
.IP ROOTLIB
The root directory for libraries of all reference packs. It enables to store
libraries in another file system (larger and permanent).
.IP HOMELIB
The root directory for libraries of all user packs. It enables to store
libraries in another file system (larger and permanent).
.IP GMKTMP
.br
A temporary directory. For optimal performance, it is recommended to use a 
local disk space.
.IP GMKFILE
The basename of the configuration file used to run 
.B gmkpack\fR.
If not defined, the use of the option 
.B -l
of
.B gmkpack
is mandatory.
.IP GMK_OPT
The extension name of the configuration file used to run 
.B gmkpack\fR.
.IP GMK_IMPORT_PLUGIN
The external script (plug-in) run by
.B gmkpack
to import source code while creating a main pack.
.IP GMK_TIMER
The command used to count the compile time of each file.
.IP GMK_SUPPORT
The directory of support files to run
.B gmkpack\fR (wrappers, configuration files, external scripts).
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Ryad El Khatib   <ryad.elkhatib@meteo.fr>
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR readpack(1),
.BR admpack(1),
.BR usrpack(1),
.BR rlspack(1),
.BR gmkpack(1),
.BR gmkfilemaker(1).
