.TH behomepack 1
.ds )H METEO-FRANCE - CNRM/GMAP
.SH NAME
behomepack \- setup the environment to be packs developer
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B . behomepack
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B behomepack
changes the user environment to be packs developer, then displays the
summary of environment variables used by 
.B gmkpack\fR.
.br
Though this status is the default one, this command is helpful if the
environment has been switched previously to packs administrator with the command
.B berootpack\fR.
.br
Note that the dot character (".") ahead from the command is mandatory : this is
because the command will export environment variables to the current shell, so this command has to be sourced.
.PP
.SH ENVIRONNEMENT
.IP ROOTPACK
The default directory of reference packs as an alternative to
.I $HOME/rootpack
.IP HOMEPACK
The default directory of user packs as an alternative to
.I $HOME/pack
.IP ROOTBIN
The root directory for executables of all reference packs. It enables to store
executables in another file system (larger and possibly semi-permanent).
.IP HOMEBIN
The root directory for executables of all user packs. It enables to store
executables in another file system (larger and possibly semi-permanent).
.IP ROOTLIB
The root directory for libraries of all reference packs. It enables to store
libraries in another file system (larger and permanent).
.IP HOMELIB
The root directory for libraries of all user packs. It enables to store
libraries in another file system (larger and permanent).
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Ryad El Khatib   <ryad.elkhatib@meteo.fr>
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR berootpack(1),
.BR envpack(1).
